docs/filters.rst, before:

Filter Response Curves
======================

The ``data/filters/`` subdirectory contains small files with tabulated
filter response curves.  All files contain a single curve stored in the ASCII
`enhanced character-separated value format
<https://github.com/astropy/astropy-APEs/blob/master/APE6.rst>`__, which is
used to specify the wavelength units and provide the following metadata:

+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|Key         | Description                                                             |
+============+=========================================================================+
|group_name  | Name of the group that this filter response belongs to, e.g., sdss2010. |
+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|band_name   | Name of the filter pass band, e.g., r.                                  |
+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|airmass     | Airmass used for atmospheric transmission, or zero for no atmosphere.   |
+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|url         | URL with more details on how this filter response was obtained.         |
+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|description | Brief description of this filter response.                              |
+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+

The following sections summarize the standard filters included with the ``speclite``
code distribution.  Refer to the :doc:`API documentation <api>` of the filters
module for details and examples of how to load an use these filters.  See
:ref:`below <custom-filters>` for instructions on working with your own custom filters.

SDSS Filters
------------

SDSS filter responses are taken from Table 4 of `Doi et al, "Photometric
Response Functions of the SDSS Imager", The Astronomical Journal, Volume 139,
Issue 4, pp. 1628-1648 (2010)
<http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0004-6256/139/4/1628>`__, and calculated as the
reference response multiplied by the reference APO atmospheric transmission
at an airmass 1.3.  See the paper for details.

The group name ``sdss2010`` is used to identify these response curves in
``speclite``. The plot below shows the output of::

    speclite.filters.plot_filters('sdss2010', wavelength_limits=(3000, 11000))

.. image:: _static/sdss2010.png
    :alt: sdss2010 filter curves

WISE Filters
------------

WISE filter responses are taken from files linked to `this page
<http://wise2.ipac.caltech.edu/docs/release/prelim/expsup/sec4_3g.html#WISEZMA>`__
containing the weighted mean relative spectral responses described in
`Wright et al, "The Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE): Mission Description
and Initial On-orbit Performance", The Astronomical Journal, Volume 140,
Issue 6, pp. 1868-1881 (2010)
<http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0004-6256/140/6/1868>`__.

The group name ``wise2010`` is used to identify these response curves in
``speclite``.  The plot below shows the output of the command below, and matches
Figure 6 of the paper::

    speclite.filters.plot_filters('wise2010',
        wavelength_unit=astropy.units.micron, wavelength_scale='log',
        wavelength_limits=(2, 30))
    plt.gca().set_xticks([2, 5, 10, 20, 30])
    plt.gca().set_xticklabels([2, 5, 10, 20, 30])

.. image:: _static/wise2010.png
    :alt: wise2010 filter curves

Johnson/Cousins Filters
-----------------------

Reference definitions of the Johnson/Cousins "standard" filters are taken
from Table 2 of `Bessell, M. S., "UBVRI passbands," PASP, vol. 102, Oct. 1990,
p. 1181-1199 <http://dx.doi.org/10.1086/132749>`__. We use the band name "U"
for the response that Table 2 refers to as "UX". Note that these do not
represent the response of any actual instrument. Response values are normalized
to have a maximum of one in each band.

The group name `bessell` is used to identify these response curves in
``speclite``.  The plot below shows the output of the command below::

    speclite.filters.plot_filters('bessell', wavelength_limits=(2900, 9300))

.. image:: _static/bessell.png
    :alt: bessell filter curves

.. _custom-filters:

Custom Filters
--------------

In addition to the standard filters included with the ``speclite`` code
distribution, you can create and read your own custom filters.  For example
to define a new filter group called "fangs" with "g" and "r" bands, you
will first need to define your filter responses with new
:class:`speclite.filters.FilterResponse` objects::

    fangs_g = speclite.filters.FilterResponse(
        wavelength = [3800, 4500, 5200] * u.Angstrom,
        response = [0, 0.5, 0], dict(group_name='fangs', band_name='g'))
    fangs_r = speclite.filters.FilterResponse(
        wavelength = [4800, 5500, 6200] * u.Angstrom,
        response = [0, 0.5, 0], dict(group_name='fangs', band_name='r'))
    speclite.filters.plot_filters('fangs', ['g', 'r'])

.. image:: _static/custom.png
    :alt: custom filter curves

Your metadata dictionary must include the ``group_name`` and ``band_name``
keys, but all of the keys listed above are recommended.

Next, save these filters in the correct format::

    directory_name = '.'
    fg_name = fangs_g.save(directory_name)
    fr_name = fangs_r.save(directory_name)

Finally, you can now read these custom filters from other programs by
calling :func:`speclite.filters.load_filter` with their absolute paths::

    directory_name = '.'
    fg_name = os.path.abspath(os.path.join(directory_name, 'fangs-g.ecsv'))
    fr_name = os.path.abspath(os.path.join(directory_name, 'fangs-r.ecsv'))
    fangs_g = speclite.filters.load_filter(fg_name)
    fangs_r = speclite.filters.load_filter(fr_name)

Commit message:

Add note about W3,W4 calibration discrepancies

docs/filters.rst, after:

Filter Response Curves
======================

The ``data/filters/`` subdirectory contains small files with tabulated
filter response curves.  All files contain a single curve stored in the ASCII
`enhanced character-separated value format
<https://github.com/astropy/astropy-APEs/blob/master/APE6.rst>`__, which is
used to specify the wavelength units and provide the following metadata:

+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|Key         | Description                                                             |
+============+=========================================================================+
|group_name  | Name of the group that this filter response belongs to, e.g., sdss2010. |
+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|band_name   | Name of the filter pass band, e.g., r.                                  |
+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|airmass     | Airmass used for atmospheric transmission, or zero for no atmosphere.   |
+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|url         | URL with more details on how this filter response was obtained.         |
+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|description | Brief description of this filter response.                              |
+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+

The following sections summarize the standard filters included with the ``speclite``
code distribution.  Refer to the :doc:`API documentation <api>` of the filters
module for details and examples of how to load an use these filters.  See
:ref:`below <custom-filters>` for instructions on working with your own custom filters.

SDSS Filters
------------

SDSS filter responses are taken from Table 4 of `Doi et al, "Photometric
Response Functions of the SDSS Imager", The Astronomical Journal, Volume 139,
Issue 4, pp. 1628-1648 (2010)
<http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0004-6256/139/4/1628>`__, and calculated as the
reference response multiplied by the reference APO atmospheric transmission
at an airmass 1.3.  See the paper for details.

The group name ``sdss2010`` is used to identify these response curves in
``speclite``. The plot below shows the output of::

    speclite.filters.plot_filters('sdss2010', wavelength_limits=(3000, 11000))

.. image:: _static/sdss2010.png
    :alt: sdss2010 filter curves

WISE Filters
------------

WISE filter responses are taken from files linked to `this page
<http://wise2.ipac.caltech.edu/docs/release/prelim/expsup/sec4_3g.html#WISEZMA>`__
containing the weighted mean relative spectral responses described in
`Wright et al, "The Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE): Mission Description
and Initial On-orbit Performance", The Astronomical Journal, Volume 140,
Issue 6, pp. 1868-1881 (2010)
<http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0004-6256/140/6/1868>`__.

Note that these responses are based on pre-flight measurements but the in-flight
responses of the W3 and W4 filters are observed to have effective wavelengths
that differ by -(3-5)% and +(2-3)%, respectively.  Refer to Section 2.2 of
`Wright 2010 <http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0004-6256/140/6/1868>`__ for details.
See also Section 2.1.3 of `Brown 2014
<http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0067-0049/212/2/18>`__ for further details about W4.

The group name ``wise2010`` is used to identify these response curves in
``speclite``.  The plot below shows the output of the command below, and matches
Figure 6 of the paper::

    speclite.filters.plot_filters('wise2010',
        wavelength_unit=astropy.units.micron, wavelength_scale='log',
        wavelength_limits=(2, 30))
    plt.gca().set_xticks([2, 5, 10, 20, 30])
    plt.gca().set_xticklabels([2, 5, 10, 20, 30])

.. image:: _static/wise2010.png
    :alt: wise2010 filter curves

Johnson/Cousins Filters
-----------------------

Reference definitions of the Johnson/Cousins "standard" filters are taken
from Table 2 of `Bessell, M. S., "UBVRI passbands," PASP, vol. 102, Oct. 1990,
p. 1181-1199 <http://dx.doi.org/10.1086/132749>`__. We use the band name "U"
for the response that Table 2 refers to as "UX". Note that these do not
represent the response of any actual instrument. Response values are normalized
to have a maximum of one in each band.

The group name `bessell` is used to identify these response curves in
``speclite``.  The plot below shows the output of the command below::

    speclite.filters.plot_filters('bessell', wavelength_limits=(2900, 9300))

.. image:: _static/bessell.png
    :alt: bessell filter curves

.. _custom-filters:

Custom Filters
--------------

In addition to the standard filters included with the ``speclite`` code
distribution, you can create and read your own custom filters.  For example
to define a new filter group called "fangs" with "g" and "r" bands, you
will first need to define your filter responses with new
:class:`speclite.filters.FilterResponse` objects::

    fangs_g = speclite.filters.FilterResponse(
        wavelength = [3800, 4500, 5200] * u.Angstrom,
        response = [0, 0.5, 0], dict(group_name='fangs', band_name='g'))
    fangs_r = speclite.filters.FilterResponse(
        wavelength = [4800, 5500, 6200] * u.Angstrom,
        response = [0, 0.5, 0], dict(group_name='fangs', band_name='r'))
    speclite.filters.plot_filters('fangs', ['g', 'r'])

.. image:: _static/custom.png
    :alt: custom filter curves

Your metadata dictionary must include the ``group_name`` and ``band_name``
keys, but all of the keys listed above are recommended.

Next, save these filters in the correct format::

    directory_name = '.'
    fg_name = fangs_g.save(directory_name)
    fr_name = fangs_r.save(directory_name)

Finally, you can now read these custom filters from other programs by
calling :func:`speclite.filters.load_filter` with their absolute paths::

    directory_name = '.'
    fg_name = os.path.abspath(os.path.join(directory_name, 'fangs-g.ecsv'))
    fr_name = os.path.abspath(os.path.join(directory_name, 'fangs-r.ecsv'))
    fangs_g = speclite.filters.load_filter(fg_name)
    fangs_r = speclite.filters.load_filter(fr_name)
